RFC: TPU SavedModel Export API for TF2 (#171)
tensorflow/community: rfcs/20191106-tf2-tpu-savedmodel.md

# TPU SavedModel Export API for TF2.x

| Status        | Proposed                                                |
| :------------ | :------------------------------------------------------ |

> | **RFC #**     | [NNN](https://github.com/tensorflow/community/pull/NNN) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **RFC #**     | [171](https://github.com/tensorflow/community/pull/171) |
```

Author: Nice catch. Thanks!

TPU model-server, TFX infra-validator use the tags to load the specific
MetaGraph. However tf.saved_model.save() does not allow users to specify the set
of tags in MetaGraphDef, but hard-coded the MetaGraph to have only one ‘serve’
tag.

### Special Logic in TPU Inference Graph

Under the status quo, TPU computations have to be represented by a drastically
different graph from CPU. Inference-specific requirements (e.g. batching /
core-selection) also adds another layer of complexity.

Some major differences between CPU and TPU Graph:

+   As a protocol between TensorFlow Graph and TF2XLA, TPU device placement of a
    Node is done by attaching `_tpu_replicate` attribute;
+   For multicore efficiency, TPU computations have to be encapsulated as a
    function and saved in FunctionLibrary, and will be called by
    TPUPartitionedCall. A TPUOrdinalSelector node has to be connected to
    TPUPartitionedCall to do efficient round-robin core selection;
+   Variable nodes have to be lifted from TPU functions, rewritten as
    VarHandleOp, and consumed by ReadVariableOp.

Also for reducing the number of TPU compilation, serving platforms(For example,

> Servomatic) prefers batching the inference requests with a few allowed batch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TensorFlow Serving](https://www.tensorflow.org/tfx/guide/serving)) prefers batching the inference requests with a few allowed batch
```

![Resulting TPU Graph](20191106-tf2-tpu-savedmodel/tpu_result.png)
<center>Resulting TPU Graph.</center>

<b>For Advanced Users who need customized Ops</b>

In such cases, we provide the flexibility for users to tweak `@tf.tpu.function`.

1.  If users wish not to use TPUPartitionedCall, they can disable using
    TPUPartitionedCall:

    ```python
    @tf.tpu.function(use_tpu_partitioned_call=False)
    def predict_step(images):
      ...
    ```

2.  Users can nest TPU functions within BatchFunction:

    ```python
    @batch_ops.nondifferentiable_batch_function
    @tf.tpu.function
    def predict_step(images):
      ...
    ```

3.  User can also use their customized PartitionedCallOp:

    ```python
    @batch_ops.nondifferentiable_batch_function
    @my_partitioned_call_op_constructor
    @tf.tpu.function(use_tpu_partitioned_call=False)
    def predict_step(images):
      ...
    ```

<b>For Keras Users</b>

Keras users only need to pass `export_to_tpu=True` to save to TPU SavedModel.
(Currently, we require the Keras model being saved to be completely
TPU-compatible.)

```python
tf.keras.models.save_model(
    model,
    filepath='...',

>     export_to_tpu=True)

Reviewer 2: If it's possible on the dist strat side, I prefer this idea over adding new arguments to the function.

>     export_to_tpu=True)

Reviewer 3: +1 hardcoding one particular architecture into save_model seems unfortunate and seems to be encoding device specific information at  a very high level (also then why not a export_to_gpu, export_to_npu, export_to_ipu, ...)

2.  Implement an additional `@tf.tpu.function` decorator in
    `tensorflow/python/tpu/tpu.py`. This decorator handles TPU rewriting under
    the hood.

3.  An additional `use_tpu_partitioned_call` keyword argument for
    `def_function.function()` and `Function.__init__()`. This argument will be
    passed through to the place where PartitionedCallOp is created. Originally
    all stateful functions will generate StatefulPartitionedCallOp. Now we
    switch to TPUPartitionedCallOp, and this routing is done by checking the
    value of `use_tpu_partitioned_call`.

### Changes to Keras API

Keras users would like `tf.keras.models.save_model()` to work directly for
exporting TPU SavedModel, without having knowledge of tf.function / tags /
signatures. The only way to achieve this is to hide those logics under
`tf.keras.models.save_model()`.

After the change, `tf.keras.models.save_model()` will have two additional
arguments:

1.  `export_to_tpu`: Simply setting this to `True` will export TPU model;
2.  `tags_signatures`: Optionally for advanced users, if they want to have more
    control of what tags / signatures they are using, they can use this argument

>     as if they are using TF2.x saving API.

Author: Sorry 2 was a mistake. It should be `tags`.
For 1, what suggestions do you have on how to let this method know we are exporting to TPU model?
